I’d like to share with you today my first time going to the emergency room. 
Throughout my childhood I loved being physically active and playing basketball. 
Just a year ago, I was a high school senior on the varsity basketball team stuck deciding on college. 
The end of the basketball season was near, and I vaguely remember the day, until after school at practice. 
At my high school gym there were three courts separated by black gym divider curtains. 
Varsity practiced on the middle court. Practice began as usual with warmups, running, drills, and reviewing plays. 
But on this day my coach decided we would do a drill where a defender would chase down an offensive 
player to get the ball. Me being a role-model player, I was first in the drill. As my coach set up 
an offensive player for me to go against he blew the whistle. I chased after one of my teammates and 
successfully stopped him from scoring, now I just had to slow down running. As I decelerated, I 
suddenly lost the traction of my left shoe. Suddenly time slowed down and I felt my eyes widen. I soon realized
my foot was sliding, and because of water spilt on the baseline. There was nothing I could do, and as I slid 
towards the  gym mat on the wall, I thought I was fine. I didn’t understand that was nowhere near the case. 
My left foot crashed into part of the wall that was just barely peeking out from underneath the wall mat. 
Time resumed back to normal, I was fine, right? Well not exactly, I felt a tingling in my left foot and saw a 
bump that definitely wasn't there before in my shoe. Then I realized, I can't feel my toe. 
I exclaimed to my coach that I needed to go to the athletic trainer’s room immediately. I was terrified and 
our athletic trainer quickly checked out my foot. My foot pointed straight, but I saw my big toe pointed 
directly at the ceiling. It's good to remain calm when dealing with someone that doesn't understand the 
full scope of their injury, but saw right through the trainer. She saw what I later found out was bone
and wouldn’t touch my foot without fear of making it worse. For me, it was second nature to immediately 
think of the worst possible scenarios. Sitting down all I could think of was myself in crutches, 
unable to walk. More importantly to me this injury would make me miss Friday’s game. I’m usually not the 
type to display emotions but sitting and feeling hopeless I bawled my eyes out. The trainer called my brother
to pick me up and take me to the E.R. The trainer walked me outside with crutches and my brother was at the 
school in less than five minutes. I checked into the E.R. and soon my Mom was there with me. I had never needed
to go to the E.R. so I didn't have a clue why I was in a waiting room. As I sat, time moved slower. 
When my adrenaline wore off, pain began overwhelming me and consumed my entire leg. I guess I finally whined 
enough when the attendant hurried to get me wheeled into a room with a wheelchair. The emergency room was small 
and had a blue gurney surrounded by medical equipment with two walls across from each other that were light
green, a back wall which was gray, and a big glass pane doorway with a curtain for privacy. Laying in a gurney
with my mom seated next to me felt like I was there forever. A nurse soon came to take x-rays of my foot then 
left. After about what felt like an hour of complaining and occasional cursing, a doctor accompanied by two 
paramedics came in and pulled my toe. Are you serious? I thought to myself as all pain completely left my body.
I dislocated my toe and the doctor just came in within 20 seconds and yanked it back into place. The doctor and
paramedics left shortly after and while I was looking at my seemingly fixed toe, blood came pouring out of the
laceration on my foot. I yelled out an Oh followed with profanity. The paramedics rushed back in then cleaned 
up my foot that was bleeding out all over the gurney. After this, I was ruled out for the rest of the 
basketball season by my podiatrist and I came back better for track season. One thing I learned from 
this was to never depend on the E.R. to be fast. No, but on a serious note, I really learned to value
family. I am extremely grateful that my brother was responsive and quick getting me to the E.R. and
my mom for sticking with me the whole time, never once leaving.